Welcome back to the Data Science Hangout. For anybody joining for the first time, I'm
Rachel. This is an open space for the whole data science community to connect and chat
about data science leadership, questions you're facing and get to learn a little bit about
what's going on in the world of data science across different industries too. And so these
sessions are recorded and shared to the RStudio YouTube. So you can always go back and rewatch
or find helpful resources or share with one of your colleagues as well. Feel free to always
share this invite if there's someone across your team that you think may benefit from
joining in the conversations too. We do also have a LinkedIn group if you want to connect
with people after the fact. It can be a little bit easier to find each other in there or
continue conversations. I'm sure someone from our team will share it in just a second in
the chat here. But together, we're all dedicated to creating this welcoming environment here
for everybody. So we love when everyone can participate, and we can hear from you all.
So no matter your level of experience or area of work, there's three ways that you can ask
questions. And we'll remind you of this in the chat too. But you can jump in by raising
your hand on Zoom here. And I'll just call on you. You can put your questions in the
Zoom chat. And feel free to just put a little star next to it if you prefer that I read
it out loud. It's like your dog's barking or you're in a coffee shop or something. And
then third, we also have a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously. And I see
Tyler just shared that in the chat right now. I want to keep adding this. I always
frame this as questions. But if you also have something to add to a specific topic, feel
free to use those options too, or raise your hand and jump in the conversation as well
to share your perspective. But I am so excited to be joined by my co-host here today,
Jessie Pluto, Senior Manager of EBI Strategic Analytics at Comcast. And Jessie, I'd love to
have you jump in to introduce yourself and share a little bit about your role and maybe
something fun that you like to do outside of work too.
Sure. Welcome, everyone. I'm pretty excited to be here. As Rachel mentioned, I am Jessie
Pluto. I'm a Senior Manager here at Comcast. I work in our Enterprise Business
Intelligence Department in Strategic Analytics. And my focus is really on video and
content. And a big part of my job, I've been here for almost five years. And my goal every
year has remained pretty consistent. Every year, I am really trying to save on the
programming costs. So, you know, as companies like, you know, keep going through
mergers, Viacom, CDS, you know, comes Paramount and these companies become bigger and
bigger. They're losing advertising revenue, they're gaining some, you know, a little bit of
power in kind of the negotiations for how much they want to charge us for programming, which we
unfortunately have to offer to the customer. Programming cost is the largest cost that
Comcast has. It's outpaced even labor. And so really, I am trying to save, you know, a
couple hundred million dollars here, a couple hundred million dollars there, you know, no
big deal, get to those B's every once in a while. And that's kind of been my main focus. I
actually have a background. I studied psychology in undergrad, which is why I think I
really like the behavioral part of this job, looking at, you know, customer behavior,
trying to figure out like, what programs do people really care about? What would people do if
they didn't have this programming? And really, I kind of studied psych in undergrad, I did a
master's certificate in applied statistics afterwards, got my foot in the door in a GIS job,
trying to do some like market research around like, where can companies, franchise
restaurants really open up a new location that would impact sales to the existing markets.
Worked for a brief period at a pharmaceutical research company before I came here to Comcast
for the last four and a half, five years.
That's awesome. So casual, save $100 million here and there.
Here and there, you know, no big deal.
Yeah, that's cool. One part of that question is tell us something fun that you like to do in your
free time too.
Pretty basic stuff. I like to go hiking, I love to get outside. I live here in Center City,
Philadelphia. So I do love to just get outside the city, get to a national park, you know, lose that
cell service, lose the Wi-Fi and just go hiking for a couple days or a week here and there.
Nice, that's great. I always love seeing the pictures from our team when they go hiking and
put them in like the Slack channel to share with everybody.
Oh, yeah, that's what I love.
So I know when we were chatting briefly ahead of the call, you mentioned you transitioned into
people management a little less than a year ago, but have been thinking a lot about team
building, community building, and being purposeful about culture. So I'd love to kick off the
conversation with that while we wait for some questions to come in, too.
So yeah, I just love that idea, by the way, about creating, like being intentional about
creating a sense of community, like, how do you do that? I worked very, very briefly in a
restaurant in the front of house and realized that I was a little bit more comfortable in the
back of house. But I did, I understand the idea of like the touch in and, you know, I did do
customer service for many years before I transitioned to analytics. So I really feel like
I kind of like took a lot of that where it's okay, like, what are the, you know, little things that I
can do to try to, you know, be intentional about like, what is the culture that I want to create
here for my team, I do have the advantage of coming from a, I had a manager before I got, you
know, went into people management, who was just like an exceptional manager in terms of creating a
culture that I really wanted to kind of almost replicate. And it's, you know, very, it's a lot
easy to kind of like borrow than it is to create something from scratch. And so I really borrowed a
lot from some of my previous managers. One of my big, you know, principles, again, that I have
borrowed from previous managers is this idea of one recognizing false deadlines, and not
necessarily trying to hit these false deadlines, if it's not necessarily something that's going to
make a business impact, if it's not a business decision being made at a specific date, really
kind of giving some flexibility to my team to, you know, where there is value investing the time. So
that's one and then just really like borrow often, share freely, you know, take code that's out
there, share code with other people see what how somebody else has done something in the past and
really try to kind of leverage what's already been done out there. I think that's been really
helpful for, you know, just kind of like building like a collaborative culture where it's like,
okay, we may have done something for the first time, but we borrowed this part of it. So like,
let's give a shout out to this person. You know, let's put our code on GitHub, let's go around to
other team members and just kind of share what we did, why we did it, what kind of we learned
throughout the process, sharing that pretty frequently, I think just kind of allows us to
kind of, you know, just be open to this idea of collaboration. I don't, I might own this project,
but, you know, there's no reason to be possessive of knowledge. Let's share that as often as we can.
And that's something that I borrowed too from the RStudio community, just growing up in that
community. Well, not growing up, but you know, learning, getting into analytics in that community
has been just such a great learning experience for what works. And then really, it's just kind
of like doing, I think, like you said, like those touch-ins and trying to make sure that I have
frequent, you know, check-ins with my team and see like, okay, how are you doing? Are you stuck on
anything? Do you need help? It can be very, very difficult, honestly, especially when you get
a new team and you're trying to transition out of doing the hands-on work yourself. This is one
of the things I struggle with the most is making time for, you know, the people on my team who need
feedback, who need to be moving forward to be successful. And sometimes that is at the expense
of, okay, I can't do my own code that needs to get done, but this is the right thing to invest my
time in right now is making sure that they can move forward and that they have what they need,
that they are getting frequent feedback and exposure and all of those things. So just kind of,
you know, making sure that they have what they need and letting go of some of the,
you know, way that I have done things for, you know, a few years.
I agree with Javier in the chat too. I love that, like no reason to be possessive of knowledge
across teams as well. And so you mentioned like making time for the individuals that on your team
to give them feedback. Do you have to like structure certain like office hours or how do you
handle that? So I do have scheduled one-on-ones every week on Monday with my team, you know,
both down and upwards just so that we can like make sure that we hit the ground running on Friday,
I'm sorry, on Monday. And then throughout the week, we have a couple of other team meetings,
you know, like where we meet as a group, not necessarily one-on-ones, but, you know,
I think during COVID, one of the things that we got used to, you know, working from home is just
the idea of, okay, we don't necessarily need to have time on our calendar. You know, we don't
need a daily stand-up on my team, but we need some sort of daily check-in where it's like,
okay, do you have what you need? Part of it is honestly just making sure that I am available,
that I have time on my calendar, that I'm not completely overbooked to the point where
if my team needs some feedback that I am not available for two days, that's not a good way
to work. And so some of that is honestly just blogging off some time on my calendar and making
sure that I have time every day that I can be available. And if I'm not making sure that
basically like when my team reaches out, if they have a question that I am being responsive and
kind of setting an example of I am going to make time for you when you need time and everything
else, I'll push aside other responsibilities, other meetings, I can move those around to make
sure that, you know, I am prioritizing you and your success. And I think it can be very, you know,
you know, I do like mentorship program for like Big Brothers Big Sisters as well. And one of the
things that I learned through that is just how important it is when you first are matched with
somebody in a mentorship role to be available, to just show up. And I think that especially when you
get new teammates, new people reporting to you specifically, like it's so important in the
beginning to just show up to just be available. Absolutely. I see Patrick, you have your hand
raised. You want to jump in? Thanks, Rachel. Yeah, I'd be happy to. And Jesse, thank you for doing
this. And I just absolutely loved everything you've said so far. So this is really good.
I have a question for you about that prioritizing, you know, blocking time on your calendar and
prioritizing the mentoring part of your role. I completely agree. I try to do the same thing.
And I'm not sure if you're responsible for like, you know, billing hours and things like that
exactly. But I'm just wondering about how do you explain that up? Right? How do you say, well,
I, you know, I don't have time to do this particular project because I need to protect my time for
taking care of my staff. And again, I'm not trying to question that approach. I think that's exactly
right. I'm just wondering how you justify it, I guess. I'm going to go back to the beginning of
my presentation. I'm in a very, very fortunate role where I have a small team and we make huge
business impact, financial impact on the company's bottom line. And actually, believe it or not,
it's really, it's quite an advantage for me because one, I don't have billable hours to deal with.
And two, the impact that my team has, the impact of what certain projects, how certain projects
can benefit the company, I think does give me a little bit more power than most people in
a typical senior manager role with a new team at a large corporation like this, maybe necessarily
would all have starting out where I can push back and say, listen, this project, this is a, you know,
$250 million annual contract that we're working on right now. This is our main priority and this
is why it's important. And I don't really honestly have to, you know, with my leaders, especially
like they know the value. And so I don't have to push them so hard all the time. I do have to be
proactive. I can't just start canceling meetings that are on my calendar every week. You know,
the day of, I have to be proactive about, okay, here are the days and times that I am trying to
be consistently available, trying my best. And it's not easy, but trying my best to manage across
many, many stakeholders, not necessarily just the ones who, you know, have all of the financial
impact, but necessarily there's a lot of operational support that my team needs to
provide, deadlines that we need to manage. And it is tricky, but I think that in terms of
priorities, I do have a bit of an advantage where just the value is very clear. There's
some operational things that I have to manage into my timeline, but usually we have a lot of,
you know, lead time, a lot of awareness of what those deadlines are that makes it a little bit
easier to manage. So not a great answer other than, you know, I think I'm a little bit fortunate
on that front. Thank you, Jess. You know, that, that really is helpful. And, you know, just
recognizing the need to plan and build that into schedules going forward is really a useful answer.
And so I do appreciate that. I'll just say that you might be in a fortunate spot, but you're in
a fortunate spot because you deliver value, right? So you deserve some credit for the fortunate spot
you're in. Thanks. I'll take it. Definitely. Yeah. And showing, being able to show that ROI that,
that your team provides too. I see, I think Catherine, you had a similar question. I think
you said maybe was answered in that, but just want to double check if there's anything you
wanted to follow up in that question too. Yeah, no, I think that was a great answer,
Jesse. And yeah, you are in a fortunate position and Patrick, you're absolutely right. You deserve
to have that fortune. I was going to ask a follow-up question, but it looks to me like
Frank has asked the question. So I throw the floor open to Frank. I love it. We're all on the same
page here. Frank, you want to jump in? Yeah. The thing about being proactive, like Jesse,
you said that you can't cancel a bunch of meetings at the start of the day and make decisions and
kind of jam everybody up. Can you talk about any of the tools that you use for communication,
whether it's within your team, whether it is what I say, managing, like managing your calendars.
I don't know, maybe it's Google or Outlook. That's the standard. And then of course,
communicating insights, like how do you think about communication? And can you talk about any
of the tools that you use that might be different than your typical Zoom, Slack, Outlook stack?
Yeah, I actually, I've tried so many tools and the thing that I recently have kind of
circled back to is just trying to keep it simple, stupid, you know what I mean? So like it is mostly
Outlook. There was a plugin. I hope we don't have anyone from Microsoft that I'll offend here,
but I tried some Microsoft plugins. I think there was something called Viva that would like
block focus time on my calendar. And it was constantly getting like overlapped with other
meetings and just like not a convenience, like 15 minutes here, 20 minutes there. And like,
that's not a good way, especially coding. That's not a good way to work. So I ended up just kind of
literally, I planned it like a month ahead of time where I, okay, for this month, it is what it is.
I'll manage them how I can. I'm going to reply tentative to the meetings that I don't have to
be at. Unless somebody is in the invite saying, this is what I need you here in this meeting to
do, I'll reply tentative. And if I'm available, then I'm available. And if not, then I might have
something more urgent that needs my attention during that time. But it was like literally a
month ahead of time. Okay, the Viva thing wasn't working. I'm going to block a big chunk on
Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays of like heads down. This is the time that I'm available.
My employees know that that time I am available and everybody else on my Outlook calendar sees
me as busy. And then I make sure that I leave open time. So people do have time to schedule
meetings. Otherwise we'll just start overlapping with other things. So it's really just trying to,
you know, a big part of it is really just learning how to say no politely. And so like
replying sensitive. And if somebody reaches, okay, can you make it? Just being able to very
politely and nicely say, sure, I think I can make time, but can you help me understand like what you
need my input on so that I can come prepared? Things like that, where it's just like, I think
just like letting people know that my time is not endlessly, limitless in terms of like, I can be
available whenever. And just kind of like setting an expectation that what can I help with? And do
you need me there? And maybe I can send somebody else, or maybe I don't need to be on this one,
but I need to be on the next one. And so it's just kind of planning ahead and, you know,
in the moments, just kind of being able to say no nicely, I think.
That's really helpful. And yeah, sorry, I was gonna say on the tooling front. Yeah, it's really
just Outlook at this point. I use JIRA mostly for project management, but it's really mostly just
Outlook and Teams. So Teams chat, Teams meetings. Yeah, cool. That's helpful from the other
perspective too, like thinking about the person scheduling the meeting to make sure that it's very
clear in the meeting invite, when I ask people to join, or if I put them maybe as optional so they
know about it, that they know what their role in that might be. I see, Alan, you asked a question
in the chat. You want to jump in? Yeah, I'm just finding all the right buttons. Yeah. Hi, Jessie.
I think my question is kind of bouncing off what you mentioned about operational responsibilities.
And I think that makes me curious if you can speak a little bit more about kind of the breadth
of things that your team does, and thinking of operationally specifically, if you have any
challenging balances of that work versus other work, and in turn, then how you, if that influences
the way that you describe roles on your team, knowing that you've got, you know, a mix of
responsibilities, or if you find that you have people who are really specialized and they fit
in those niches really well. So yeah, that's a little bit of the sort of day-to-day and kind of
big picture, you know, work of the team that I'm really curious about. Yeah, so I think like our,
I think I mentioned a little bit, but our big priority is really kind of predicting, okay, we
have these contracts that are expiring in the next 12 to 15 months. It's coming up with some, you
know, we have like an analytic suite that, you know, me and my team have developed, which basically
predicts how many customers would, you know, churn, drop video if we were to lose specific
programming. It does a lot of additional like analytics in terms of just descriptives around
what are the popular programs, what is the seasonality, the tonnage, like how much do
people consume this, but then going beyond tonnage, like what's people actually care about,
you know. We really see that, you know, people's passion is with, you know, are you tuning live
to like House of the Dragon? You probably care a ton if you're watching that literally at like
9 p.m sharp compared to, okay, you just binged, you know, the last, I don't know, eight season of
Friends or something. You know what I mean? Like it's just different types of, the total hours
might be the same, but it's not all equal. So I really enjoy that part of it. We spend a big part
of our time producing that report, answering a different question, you know, like, what's the
answering additional follow-up questions about, you know, specific programming. There's a ton of,
you know, different like nuances with programming and viewing and what people care about. So that's
the big priority, but a lot of our other, you know, operational responsibilities line, okay,
we have this contract that's expiring. And even if we're not planning to drop the content,
we have to be prepared legally for if that situation were to happen where we don't come to
terms. And so we have to have, you know, list, you know, strategic analytics. My team traditionally
does not like to do a lot of operational tech. We're really a task we're focused on strategy,
but viewing that is incredibly sensitive. So it's really just my team that has access to it.
And so we do have to sometimes fill in a lot of operational roles in terms of preparing,
making sure that the call centers know how many calls they should expect. If we are to go dark
on some programming, make sure that they have all of the customers, you know, in the system tagged as
like, these are the heavy viewers of this. These are the passionate folks that you should be aware of.
You know, app users, if that were to go dark. So like some of that kind of,
you know, even we, you know, we have a lot of like legal responsibilities in terms of like public
access channels and making sure that we can provide the legal team with certain information
about, you know, what is the viewership of public access television and things like that,
which is not necessarily strategic. It's required. And like we consider that to be operational.
It's just, it's necessary because viewing data is so sensitive. My team is kind of responsible
for most of that as well. Like I said, usually we have a lot of lead time with that. And so we can
kind of plan. And we've really, in my team invested a lot in what can we automate as much
as we can, you know, take tasks that we do multiple times and just make it reproducible
and as light touch as possible. We've kind of invested in, in making sure that we can do that
easily, efficiently, and, you know, with as little time effort as possible.
Cool. It's a, it's a domain I don't know anything about. So it's fascinating to hear
like lots of activities that are familiar, but in a completely different, you know,
area of knowledge and expertise. So thank you. Yeah. Really, really fascinating. Thanks.
Yeah. Just to follow up a little bit too on your, you know, how you actually like, I forget exactly,
maybe you can help me understand what the question was, but like find talent or tailor
the role to the expectations. I think you had mentioned what was it? Yeah. Okay.
Sort of the, sort of that balance of, of you know, like analytical versus operational,
it sounds like maybe it's not as much of a dilemma for you because so much of it sounds,
at least a lot of it sounds like it's maybe similar activities, but in different kinds of,
of like subject areas or, or maybe domains. But yeah, I was curious if that was a,
if that was a challenge for describing your role and being able to reliably
give the work that you described in the job ad to the folks on your team.
I don't think it's a big challenge. I am upfront with people that, you know,
this is the part of the job that we have to do. But if you're somebody who likes doing a lot of
different kinds of things, which you do have to do in this role, again, I think because the viewing
guide is so, you know, you know, limited in terms of access, you know, a lot of times people on this
team have to do, you know, wear a lot of hats in terms of engineer and developer, you know,
like really looking at things in terms of creative problem solving, because you don't necessarily
have the same resources as you would on a team that has data that's, you know,
just available to everyone. So as long as people like to do different kinds of things, and again,
I think that, you know, I try to kind of phrase it a little bit more like, yes,
we have these operational tasks. But one of the things that I personally enjoy, and I look for
people who, you know, also enjoy, like, how do I spend as little time and effort on that part
as possible? How can I write an R function, a package and R markdown report, whatever it may be
to just like, get this done as quickly and easily as possible and not spend my time just doing
copy and paste type coding. Nobody wants to do that. Well, hopefully, the people I'm looking
for don't really want to do that over and over again. Right. That's great. Thank you.
Yeah, thank you. I just have to ask, is there a show that you've been really surprised that
people care a lot about? Oh, gosh, most reality TV. Wow, this one. There's quite a few shows.
Even like, you'd be surprised how many much people watch, you know, sometimes,
like the old Westerns are still very, very popular, you know, things like that, you know,
even like friends, like those old shows that just kind of have that, you know, popularity, like,
the amount of time that people go back to it and watch it and spend on those things is always a
little bit like, wow, that's that's shocking. Yeah, that's interesting. I see, Tiffany, you
asked the question, there's a star, so I'll read it, but it's what is your typical schedule? Do
you have times when you're trying to meet a deadline and have to work more hours in a week?
Or do you have a good work life balance? It's definitely gotten a lot better since I've gotten
my team together. So for a while, I was kind of working independently on this,
like the, you know, content negotiation, content acquisition support, I was working
relatively independently on it. And so, you know, sometimes there would be like an actual hard
deadline, not like a soft deadline, but like this contract is expiring in a week or two weeks,
and we need this information. And sometimes I did work late, or work a weekend or something
like that, or wake up at like, you know, three in the morning and get like an early start,
because I worked too much the day before. And a lot of that is honestly, like,
I think that's just like how I am. Like, I sometimes like, I get curious to the point
where it's like, no, I am going to solve this. Maybe something has gone wrong, like a server
has gone down, or like, you know, a cluster has gone down, or something has happened. And I'm like,
I'm going to get this finished. Like, I think something that really helped me in my career is
just kind of taking ownership of this project. And really kind of like, I am going to deliver
no matter what obstacles come in my way. And even though I think my leadership would have been much
more understanding if I would have said, hey, there's this blocker, this isn't going to get
done. I know I would have had support. I think there's like something wrong with my brain. It's
just like, no, you're going to get this done. The stubbornness that I don't know is great. But
I think that now that I have a team that, you know, we have multiple people working on this,
it's a lot easier for us, I think, to kind of spread the workload around. And I think I'm a
lot more protective of my people's time than I am of my own. I started to realize that it's the
same thing. Like, I need to approach it in the same way. But my work-life balance, I'd say,
in the last three to six months has actually really, really gotten to a good, a really good spot.
That's great to hear.
It's nice.
I see. Brittany, you asked a great question in the chat. Do you want to jump in?
Sure. Yeah. So to give you a little bit of context on my question, I'm an analyst. And
what I'm trying to do is sort of help tool up other analysts on my team. So a lot of analysts
use things like SQL, Power BI, those kinds of tools. And I've really seen a great need for
maybe some more programming type tools like Python and R and things like that. But of course,
as an analyst, when you're working with business partners, you're just trying to deliver value and
insights in a speedy way, right? You're trying to do it as quickly as possible. And so I'm trying
to sort of convince analysts to maybe even take a little bit of a step back and learn and implement
something new that can help them, both them and their business partners in the future.
But I'm trying to kind of balance those two things. So do you have any advice for how I,
as the person trying to sort of get these things up and running can help to create more of that
culture of let's go ahead and take a step back and do something now that will help me in the
long term versus just trying to check boxes as quickly as possible? It is a constant battle.
And I feel like it is the place where like it requires some strategy because you can't do it
all the time. You have to like really, I think, recognize when is the right time to
pounce on an idea. You have to have the ideas. Sometimes you have to sit on them for a little
while and then you have to just be able to like recognize, I think, that opportunity. And sometimes
it's okay to make mistakes. Like sometimes you push something too soon and, you know,
it might hurt a little bit, but don't let that kill your motivation. I hate PowerPoint. Like
I hate copy and paste so much. I might've said copy and paste like 80 times already. I hope I
did it, but I hate it. And for a long time, you know, some of the reports that I was doing,
like just to give you an example, Paramount is like 30 individual networks. And so sometimes
we're repeating views for, you know, 30 networks times like five different views or something as
a bare minimum, too many slides, too much copy and paste. And I had made a, you know, push for,
oh, we should convert this to markdown or shiny or something. And same thing. It's like, well,
our stakeholders don't know how to use that. And like, it's a server. It's, you know,
very private and for data, private customer information and COVID hits and sports viewing
kind of just went away. There's like COVID hit, pandemic hit. And we had so many questions coming
in about what do we do? What's going on? What are customers doing? What are they watching?
You know, all sports just kind of went, you know, completely off the air immediately. And I realized
like, this is my moment. I created a, you know, this is back, we were in Hadoop at the time,
we've since moved, but we were in Hadoop at the time. I set up some like shell scripts,
like fast scripts to, you know, run at certain days and like scheduled it and like created this
like pipeline that I had been messing around with for a while, created an automated or markdown
report. And basically I was able to give the information that the business was asking for
very, very quickly. And they learned how to use it because it's like, they really wanted it.
And it would have been too much for my very small team to be reporting every single week on like
what is happening this week. It'd be a huge load on our team to do that every single week from
scratch. And so basically kind of investing. And I will admit that I spent a little bit of
night, you know, time on this project. But it was a passion project where I was like, all right,
this is my moment to prove that like, this is a feasible solution and show, because we have so
many questions coming in. This was one of a huge backlog of questions. I was able to show that,
okay, this is done. We've automated, we can use this for other things, for other questions that
business owners want every single week, for data that they want every single week. And still have
time left over for those ad hoc questions, those one-off things that are really important. We'll
have time for that too and not miss the report. And so I think there's just this kind of strategy
that you have to really kind of always be thinking about of when is the right moment to,
you know, maybe not necessarily ask for approval, to just do something and show the value.
And hopefully you have leaders who will support you in those decisions, if it's the right one
in the right moments. Because that's really, I think that's what I've been able to, those,
I think like little windows that I found to be able to kind of push some of the different tools
that, you know, were not really, I think, supportive in the beginning of my career here.
Awesome. Thank you.
Absolutely love that, that answer too. Thank you. I'm just going through to see some of the
questions over from Slido too. But Timothy, I see you asked a question in the chat. Do you want to
jump in? Yeah, sorry. I'm just unmute and everything. Yeah. So it sounds like you're
doing really interesting work over there. And you, in my imagination, you have a suite of like
dozens or hundreds of apps and reports, some of which are mission critical and all that.
Are you, do you have like a unit testing group or QA, QC process,
dedicated process or is it sort of just fix it when it breaks?
Um, so my team doesn't actually, we do in enterprise business intelligence have a
reporting team, um, because the viewing data is sensitive. You know, sometimes my team gets into
that, especially with the content acquisition work, those, those contracts are also considered
very sensitive information. So I, um, you know, some, some of that is like exclusive to my team.
And we kind of like, again, I think I said like my team, whereas a lot of different hats,
like sometimes we get into the engineering space. Sometimes we get into the data quality space.
A lot of times we do even get into the reporting space. The COVID report, that was the solution
that fit the question at the time. We didn't continue to support that. If that were to
continue to be a, you know, solution that needed to be out there and that needed to be out there
every week for our business owners, it would actually transition to another team in EBI,
the reporting team. So we do have, you know, a whole team of data management, um, who does
more data quality work and unit testing and, um, you know, typical reporting, um, things like that,
which, you know, we, we don't take a lot of ownership necessarily on my team for, um,
long-term reporting or data assets or anything like that. We try to just be good partners,
honestly, with that team. You know, if we can solve something and hand it off,
you know, we try to do that. If we can collaborate and get a solution together that has some business
impact, we try to do that, but we don't normally, you know, strategic analytics really is more
focused on, you know, these are the questions that the presidents and VPs of the company are asking.
How can we answer them? And then once it becomes more of a, you know, even like a model, for
example, we might build a segmentation and strategic analytics, but when it's time for
deployments, you know, we might hand that over to the data science team to actually, you know,
get into a good deployment, um, you know, every month or week, whatever it may be.
Awesome. Thank you. Yeah.
Thank you. I wanted to circle back to, um, Brittany's question too, on the culture of
learning, because I see there were a lot, a few comments in the chat that I missed as well.
Um, from both Hugh and Marlene. So I was curious if either of you wanted to jump in as well.
Marlene, it looks like you, you mentioned you're starting a group to unite data scientists.
Yeah. Hi, Rachel. Um, first of all, thank you to this group. Um, not just the speakers,
although thank you, Jesse. I just, um, I found all of the input that I've been getting from you.
I've, um, I've been here for about a month doing these hangouts, really invaluable. So it's nice
also just for the solidarity and some of the same issues we're getting, but I just want you all to
know that your, your opinions and your experience matters even to people like me. Um, so anyway,
I'm, um, yeah, it really does make a difference. So I hope you give yourself a pat on the back for
that. Um, and you too. Um, yeah. So at literally as of yesterday, I finally got the green light
from our COO to start a data scientist and analyst group. Um, Jesse, I'm taking all these
mental notes as you speak about, you know, kind of like some of the management and whatnot. I
not, I'm not an official manager of these people, but there's a lot of disparate systems and, um,
workflows in the organization. We don't have a common like data warehouse or single source of
truth. Um, we're a family of companies. There's seven companies and we're all over the place.
So part of this group is a, to figure out what people are doing. Um, but also much to Britney's
point, like how do you get them to step back from the hustle and bustle of checking boxes,
being more of like a compliance minded. I'm trying to just get these things done for my boss
into a little more of a proactive mindset, right? A little more meta, um, um, intentional,
I would say. And, um, we're going to have, um, these groups are going to be broken up into
what I call show and tell modules. We'll build, somebody will literally just be able to come up
and say, this is what I've done in power BI. It doesn't have to be anything fancy. We just need
to know for transparency sake, what people are doing. Um, and then, um, we'll also have learning
sessions where somebody who feels like they have at least a periphery knowledge of a software or a
tool or a programming language can show other people what it what's capable of and what they've
utilized it for. Um, so as far as the time allocation for that, um, and Jesse, I hear you,
especially when you're like, okay, I have to make sure I'm not so booked that I can't talk to my
team. Right. Um, I'm very fortunate that my schedule is fairly flexible and I keep a certain block of
time available in the morning. I'm going to make that open to the group to let them ping me for
questions, but also just to connect them with somebody else in the group who's much more
knowledgeable in what they need than I am. Right. Um, and I think right now we're shooting for every
other week, Brittany. So, you know, one hour every other week, if that's not doable, then
there's something very, very wrong with their management. Right. And I'm also willing to go
to bat and start, you know, duking it out with managers if I need to in a polite and political
way, but that that there's no reason for anybody at any job to be, you know, eight hours a day
nose to the, to the, um, or pedal to the metal, just inundated with work, right? There's something
wrong with how you're allocating your hours. And if you don't have room for improvement and or skill
management or skill improvement, then you're going to be stuck in this rut. And that's when
unhappy employees leave. So I want to avoid that. It's partially why I started this group.
So there's my, my spiel, but thanks for the opportunity. Thanks. That's great. And way to
go on starting the group too. I know Lisa, um, you mentioned you started a group as well. I'm
curious if you want to share a little bit about what you're doing. Sure. Um, so I work at Blue
Cross Blue Shield of Minnesota and I started in January and I found it, um, as much as I love
being remote, um, it was really hard to like get to know where all the sort of, I don't know, data
and analytics folks lived, especially the ones outside of the data and analytics sort of larger
team. Um, so I essentially just like, as I started meeting people was like, I'm going to do these
meetups and I'm going to invite you. Right. And, um, so kind of started with this random group
of like people I happened to have met. Um, and then just recently, um, started inviting all of
data analytics. So like 150 people, um, plus all the people I know who are outside of that group
and what's been forwarded to, um, and, and kind of like Marlene was saying, um, have used a lot
of those ideas. So, um, we've done a couple of talks about data visualization. Um, we actually
had, uh, Mirov who just talked here maybe a couple months ago, uh, come speak to the group.
That was really cool. Um, so like done some sort of teaching type things and then, um,
I am going to have people start sort of sharing their projects as well.
Yeah, it's been great so far. I love it. Um, I'm biased, but I love all this focus on,
you know, teaching and learning. It's awesome. That's great. Yeah. Kudos to everybody who's
leading those groups too. I know it can be a bit of extra work too. And so it's nice to be able to,
to celebrate them as well. I, I see our first actual anonymous question too. So I just wanted
to remind people, if you do want to ask anything anonymously, you can use the Slido too. Um, but
somebody asked, um, it's been in the news that Netflix will start to crack down on password
sharing soon. Have you tried to estimate this problem for Comcast streaming services?
I have not looked at that. I am also, I've been tracking that a little bit. I'm curious. I know
there was some, um, I think they might've, uh, started that in some other countries and I think
they had some, they're starting to slow down on, on new connects from what I understand overall.
So, um, early information suggests that it could be bad for Netflix. I don't know what the impact
on Comcast necessarily will be. Um, I have not been asked that one yet, but I imagine I'm going
to get that one soon. So thanks for the heads up. I might have to start looking into that early.
Dom, I see you also put a question in the chat. You want to jump in?
Um, sure. Yeah. I think you just already touched on this slightly, but, um, just curious about your,
you know, workflow management, how your data teams work, how they sort of collaborate. I know
you've touched on this, but just, just curious about your methodology and, um, you know, how,
you know, you, uh, well, I'm just recently, um, joined, uh, booking.com and we have like new
intake and planning processes in place. And it's just, um, just really curious, um, how you guys
do it. Yeah, I love talking about workflow. So, um, just from a, like, where does work come from
standpoint, like going to like the very, very, very beginning, um, we actually don't have a
JIRA intake for it. So it's not like anybody can just submit a request and then all requests are
treated equally. We, you know, strategic analytics, like sometimes I described it like the internal
consultants of Comcast, you know, like we are in the meetings with, you know, the president of
content acquisition, you know, the president of, you know, products of different services of
customer experience. Like literally we are in all of those meetings. And so we are able to kind of
hear, what are the questions that are being repeated over and over again? Where's the value
that's kind of like on my team to figure out what is the biggest value that we can add right now?
What's most important. And we do get specific questions that we have to answer, but really the
work is not coming from like a JIRA intake or anything like that. It's coming from, you know,
the highest, the business, um, you know, decision makers throughout the company. And so that's kind
of like how work gets prioritized. And then basically my team, you know, we have most of the
viewing data is in, we just moved recently to AWS. Our data is an S3 storage. Um, not all of it,
you know, like most big companies, you know, there's data in many, many places and we have to
join, you know, cloud and on-prem and bring everything together. And, you know, we do a lot
of engineering to kind of set up, you know, jobs that run, you know, every month or so. And so that
we have that available and ready to go for some of the reports that we do. And basically we'll do a
bunch of aggregation in, you know, Databricks, for example, and a Databricks notebook with Scala,
um, or, you know, Spark or something like that. And then basically, you know, write out some, um,
data and then from our pool, that data in run a report. Um, my team has recently started working.
I think I mentioned before that I kind of was doing this mostly independently for a while.
And so when I started working as a team, I was really excited to finally have the chance,
like we're going to work from a repo. Like everything is in the GitHub repo. We're all
like working, you know, we started off just on like GitHub desktop, honestly. And, you know,
just working from the same repository altogether at once. It's just like such a fun experience.
And of course I messed up one of my, I messed up the first one, the first process, of course,
which I actually felt really good that I was like, okay, both of my, you know, new teammates did
awesome. I screwed it up and I got to kind of be the person who, you know, made an example of what
not to do and kind of communicate that. So I, I had such a fun time with that. Um, that's kind of
my new, I think passion is just like making sure that we all have like a good solid repo that we're
using proper version control and, you know, contributing in that way. Cause I just think
it's such a better workflow, honestly, than what I had been doing before, even though I was using
packages and trying to kind of like standardize and make all of my code reproducible. It's different
when you're doing it on a team. And I will say like, if you haven't had that experience, it's
definitely, you know, uh, scary, but in a very good way. That's very interesting. Yeah. Thank
you very much. Yeah. Thank you. I'm curious how you like share those lessons of failure across the
team too. With a big smile, usually laughing. Of course it was me. Um, I do try to have fun with
it. Like it is a learning experience. Um, I think when I was earlier in my career, I was always so
nervous of making a mistake, especially publicly, or God forbid, like as a manager with people who
reported to me, it seemed like such a scary thing. And I don't know if it's just like years on the
job, if it's just like the results of doing it many times. Um, I don't know if it's just that
I don't really have a good sense of like, why I've kind of grown out of that, but I have grown out of
that to the point where it's, you know, I guess maybe it's just like having enough successes under
your belt and having a reputation that you can, you know, stand firm on. Um, maybe that's just it,
but I definitely feel a lot of, um, psychological safety, I guess, to kind of fail, fail publicly.
And, you know, hopefully nothing really, really bad has happened. Luckily I don't work in medicine
or anything where like lives are on the line. Thankfully, that's not the case. So, you know,
mistakes happen. I think that it's a good learning opportunity. As long as it's not everything that
you do and you have a reputation as somebody who can deliver and, you know, isn't constantly making
big mistakes. I don't think you need to worry so much about it. That's not the thing that usually
from what I've learned, that's not the thing that people remember forever about you.
Yeah, definitely accepting it. Eventually. I remember on seeing on Twitter that in
the data community, there's this thing called, I think data mishaps night and a bunch of people
just share these kinds of stories with each other as well. Um, I just lost my track of what I was
going to ask you. Let me, let me think of what I was, what I was going to say. Um, so moving into
the new, like into people management, I imagine you have to think a lot more about hiring and
growing a team. So I'm curious, like any lessons learned there in terms of, of hiring and interviewing
people? Yeah, I'm still learning a lot of those lessons. I think I have been doing some hiring
and interviewing and it can be very difficult, I think to, you know, in such a quick, you know,
30 minute interview or so, like really get to know a person. Um, not just like in terms of
their technical skills, but, um, it is really, really, really hard. I think to like, look at a
resume and to necessarily, you know, get a good sense of like, is this the right fit? I think
whenever possible, you know, just trying to be more involved with the community
and have that kind of, you know, if you're not involved with R-Ladies Philly yet, I'll give a
shout to R-Ladies Philly. That's a great place to get involved. Even like the RStudio conference.
Um, there's like lots of ways where I think I've been able to benefit from just already being in
a community. You know, I haven't necessarily, um, had anything quite work out yet, you know,
in terms of hiring from somebody I've met through any of those events. But I do think that
just being involved like that is, you know, I don't know if it's going to work yet, but that's
my strategy right now is just kind of like some of the other things at my, you know, in my career,
just trying to take ownership of, okay, I'm not going to leave it all up to the process that
exists in a large company, right? I'm not going to leave it all up to the recruiters on my team,
necessarily. I'm going to take some ownership and, you know, get involved and talk to people
and just kind of make those connections and trust that eventually that's going to be,
you know, a real benefit for hiring for me and my team.
That's great. Thank you. I see, Phil, you asked a question. Um, I can read it for you. It's,
it's, I'd like to hear more about how your strategic analytics group or role was formed.
Was it organic growth from your solo work or did Comcast open a new role or position?
So good question. Um, strategic analytics. So enterprise business intelligence at Comcast,
I think is like seven or eight years old. It's not that old. It's relatively new. It started
with, I think like 12 people or something. Um, there's some, some folks who could give you a
better history lesson than me, honestly, I'll have to refresh, but, um, we grew really, really fast.
And one of the big wins, this is before I was here just to, just to call that out. But before
I was here, one of the big early wins that we had was actually this kind of work that I'm doing now.
It's getting access to the viewing data. It was a big win getting involved with the president of
content acquisition and building that relationship with a huge win where we were able to very early
in my department's, um, history, like show a huge value to the organization.
I've made a lot of changes to like, you know, this, this type of work that we do,
the type of analytics that we do. It's changed a lot since I started like five years ago.
Um, but in general, what happened was basically I was doing this content acquisition support,
as well as a bunch of other video and content support. And my manager was a very, very good
mentor and him, it was a team of three, him and the other woman that I started working with on
the team. They went and started their own team in the same department in strategic analytics,
where they are completely focused on training new hires, on giving them, uh, you know,
cross training across all the different groups in strategic analytics.
And so basically that kind of led me into this role where, okay, now I am leading the
video and content team and doing all of that support and kind of starting my own team from
scratch. Maybe not from scratch. Yeah. How, and how big is the team now? Did you say in the beginning?
I have two people right now and I am looking for one more.
Oh, awesome. All right. So you're hiring now. Feel free to share the link to the role in the
chat as well. What is that position that you're hiring for now? Senior analyst.
Awesome. I can try and grab it in the background as well and put it into the chat.
I also just want to double check that I haven't missed anybody's question from
the chat or Slido. So feel free to just like jump in or raise your hand here as well.
Give people a few seconds here.
And so, so Jesse, I know you were talking about like being intentional about building
the culture on your team and like sharing data across separate teams as well. And so
I can't remember the exact phrase, but around knowledge sharing. So I was just curious, like, do the different teams within Comcast, like get together to share projects with each other as well? And like teach each other how you're solving problems?
Yeah, we do do projects together pretty frequently. A lot of times we'll team up. So
we have like a finance team in my department. And so like a lot of times we'll team up with the finance team.
We actually just created a new team called channel analytics coming out of the collaboration between
the product side and the finance side. So we do a lot of, you know, whenever we can collaboration.
Sometimes it's within strategic analytics. So like, you know, we'll do a lot of, you know,
Product finance customer experience. All of those things. There's a lot of collaboration that happens there.
So, like the domains where it's, you know, product finance, customer experience, all of those things. There's a lot of collaboration that happens there, especially even code sharing with like, hey, I'm doing this project and it touches your domain.
Can we just like do some code reviews and talk about, you know, am I on the right path? And I'm thinking about this, right?
What do you know about, you know, your domain expertise that that really helps us to do that collaboration?
And then, yeah, sometimes it does kind of develop into a whole new team, a whole new line of work that we need to focus on. And, you know, that's the thing that happens pretty frequently for pretty large company.
Cool. I see there was an anonymous question. I know we have a lot of questions, but I'm going to go ahead and read it out loud and see if there's anything that you want to add to that.
Pretty frequently for pretty large company.
Cool. I see there was an anonymous question. I know we have a few minutes left here. And one was, do you have to handle salary negotiations in the interview process? Or do you leave that to HR? And they're wondering, like, does it turn you off if somebody like asks for more?
It doesn't turn me off. I will say that I, most of that is on HR. Most of that is not on me specifically. It's on folks that are in HR. And, you know, some of it is defined by the budget that is defined by my team. And by finance, not just like my department's finance team, but like overall Comcast finance team.
But for the most part, I do not handle too much of the salary negotiations myself. Thankfully, I am very thankful for that, actually.
That doesn't always sound like a fun part of it. Marlene, I see you also asked a question in the chat. You want to jump in?
Sure. Yeah, the question is just around. This one is still a struggle for me. Jesse is documentation, right? Because there's always the handover to new employees. And you can't remember what the old employee had in place or why it's there. Or when you're implementing something new. Everybody's really excited and guns a blazing to get infrastructure up and running.
Right, all those pipelines and whatnot. But then how do you handle documentation, making sure people follow through with that, that the document, that the metadata is well documented as well. Just wanted to get your thoughts on that.
Yeah, my team, I'm fortunate my team is small. And because we don't have too much ownership of like the actual data, you know, data products, like the viewing data necessarily, we don't have to stress documentation too much. I do try to just like, be better, especially working as a team. I'll be honest, I was terrible when I was working mostly independently. I've been trying to be a lot better now, just like having a team working as a team, commenting code.
You know, pushing updates to GitHub, every time I make any updates, things like that. But in terms of like actual documentation of workflows, we don't do too much of that on my team. I think that's a, it's a huge amount of overhead. And we're more focused really on being fast and effective.
And when there's larger products, larger projects, over a longer period of time, honestly, just making sure that it's reproducible, less so than documented, because not, it's not like anybody can come in and access the viewing data. That's, you know, not something everyone can do. So we haven't yet grown to the point where that's really important for us to spend our time on.
Okay, thanks.
Brittany, I see you just commented into the chat too, if you want to jump in.
I like the idea of this documenting party.
Yeah, I, so like my team, we've got like five analysts, or a little bit of a smaller team. But one idea that I've always kind of floated around with is like doing something like that. I know that I try to do that even in just my own general workflow of like Fridays are really more cleanup days than anything.
But I haven't really tried it with the team where we all kind of get together and we document and we show each other our code, especially, I think that's helpful because as the person writing the code, sometimes it's hard to know like what to comment and what not to.
But just as like another kind of, hey, we're all in this together, we've all got to do this, and making it a little bit more fun rather than like, oh, you have to do your code and get otherwise you're horrible, terrible, whatever. So yeah, but I can let you guys do that.
Yeah, but I can let you guys know how that goes. If it goes well, if it doesn't go well, just I'll keep you up to date.
Yeah, one thing I guess we do have a, you know, a blog post that we have internally that is, you know, hosted through I think GitHub pages, but
we do, you know, if we figure out like a new way to move. I think I saw a question come in the chat about like, are you in the cloud or local and
one of the things we had to figure out when we moved to Databricks was, okay, how do we move data from, you know,
cloud location to an on-prem location. And so we figured out how to do that. And then, you know, just kind of like
writing a script that's well commented, posting it on the blog, sharing it around with the team. So like things that do impact,
you know, more throughout the organization, we do try to kind of put some documentation together for that and post it on the blog post right now is kind of the place where we're putting it.
It's been GitHub before. It can be a very casual, you know,
Hey, look, I did this thing. If anybody is interested, I'm going to go at lunch or, you know, Fridays, same thing as like Friday, Tuesday, Thursday for kind of sharing information on Friday. I'm going to like,
you know, show everybody how I did this. So it can be pretty, you know, posted on the blog or a little bit more of a casual thing.
Awesome. I know we just hit the top of the hour and a few people have to to run. But I think you just answered Javier's question there and that most of what your team's doing is in the cloud today.
We do some stuff locally at the last step for some reports where we're pulling in data from the cloud. It's already aggregated. Most of the processing happens in the cloud, but sometimes we do use our local R every once in a while.
Well, thank you so much, Jesse. It's been really fun getting to learn about the ways Comcast is using data and also how you're building that culture and showing value on the team.
If people wanted to connect with you, I did share like that. Our Lady's Philly group in the chat, but is LinkedIn the best place to connect with you?
Yeah, our Lady's Philly, Twitter.
LinkedIn, our Lady's Philly, Twitter.
All of those are good.
Okay, awesome. Well, thank you so much. Really appreciate it. And thank you everybody for all the great questions, too. I feel like there was so much energy here today. Really, really appreciate you all being here. We'll be back next week. We'll be joined by Marcos Huerta, manager of data science at CarMax as well. So hope to see you then. Bye, everybody.
Thank you, Rachel.